,. I 1()D F.No. 25-1/2013/FIU-IND/Ptv Government of India Ministry of Finance Department of Revenue Financial Intelligence Unit-India 6tl1Floor, Hotel samrat Kautilya Marg, Chanakyapuri New Delhi- 110021 ORDER-IN ORIGINALNO. 5/DIR/FIU-IND/2015 Name&Addressof the ReportingEntity: Corporation Bank, Head Office, Mangaladevi Temple Road, P.B No.88, Mangalore - 575001 Show Cause Notice No. & Date: F.No. 25-1/2013/FIU-IND dt. 1th Dec, 2013 Section under which order passed: Section 13 of PMLA,2002 Date of Order: 23rd June, 2015 Authority passing the order: Director, Financial Intelligence Unit-India An appeal against this order may be made with the Appellate: Tribunal established under PMLA, 2002, and situated at 4th Floor, Lok Nayak Bhavan, Khan Market, New Delhi within a period of f0l1y five days from the date on which this order is received by the Corporation Bank. The appeal should be in the form and manner prescribed (refer to sub-section (3) of section 26 of the prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, hereinafter referred to as PMLA or the Act). 1. Corporation Bank (hereinafter also referred to as the 'Bank') is a banking company as defined under Section 2(e) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (hereinafter also referred to as the 'Act'). 2. Section 12 of the Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 2005 (hereinafter also referred to as the 'Rules'), framed under the Act, impose obligations on banking companies to verify the identity of the clients, maintain records of specified transactions and report to Director, Financial Intelligence Unit - India (hereinafter also 1 of 6. Order No.5/DIR/FIU-IND/2015 I referred to as 'Director, FIlJ-IND') inlimnatiolJ rl'I~ltilJg to such tralJs~lctiolJs. These reports include reports on cash transactions, sllspicious tr~llJsactions and counterfeit currency transactions. 3. Rule :3or the Rules speci lies the transactions, the records or which (lrc to be maintained; Rules 5, 7 & X of the Rules prescribe the procedure, manner and time of maintaining and furnishing such information; and Rule 9 of the Rules prescribes the procedure and manner or veri lication or records of identity of clients. 4. . Section 13 of the Act confers on the Director, FIU-IND powers to enquire into cases of failure to comply with the provisions or Section 12 or the Act and the Rules thereunder and to levy a 1ine lor each such failure. 5. In March 2013 there was widespread reporting in the media about a sting operation carried out by the website Cobrapost that allegedly exposed deficiencies in the anti-money laundering preventive measures applied by the banks and other financial institutions including the Corporation Bank. The sting operation involved the Cobrapost reporter visiting the branch or the financial institutions with a story: that he wanted to invest/ saf(~-keep substantial amounts of illicit or unaccounted cash. The website had videotaped the conversations with the officials/ employees of the financial institutions that were played out in the media suggesting widespread violations of statutory obligations under the PMLA. Following the sting operation by Cobrapost, the Bank was asked vide letter dated 10-07-2013, whether any alerts in respect of the sting operation were generated in its branch at Sector 31, Gurgaon, which was covered in the sting operation, and whether any STR was reported for attempted transactions for tpe incident reported by the Cobrapost. The Bank in its reply dated 25-07-2013 confirmed that no STR was filed for attempted transactions in the branch concerned. The Bank also stated that no alerts had been generated by the branch for the reported incidents. 6. As per the definition of STR in Rule 2(g) of the Rules, STR means a transaction referred to in clause (h) including an attempted transaction. As STR for attempted transactions had not been filed for the branch of the Bank visited by Cobrapost, a show cause notice was issued on 1ih December 2013 for contravention of provisions of Section 12 of the Act, read with the relevant Rules of the PML (Maintenance of Records) Rules 2005. 7. The Bank in its reply dated 30-12-2013, admitted to the discussions of Cobrapost reporter with the branch official of Gurgaon, Sector 31 branch and stated that: there was no attempted transaction at the branch and the reporter 2 of 6. OrderNo.5/DIR/FIU-INDI2015 I had had only casual discussion 011the various husinl'ss propositions ;111<.1till' schemes or the Bank; the Bank 11;\(.1suspended the concerJIl'd onlcia I from the branch on the day ('ohr;lpost had reported in llledi;1 ;lIld suitahk disciplinary action was initiated; the Bank had comnlllnicated ;111 the 27 branch level red flag indicators to the branches vide tlll:ir circul;lr dated 12- 10-2011, with the instructions to report immediately when sllch instances were observed in the branches. The bank also replied that during the period 0]-04-20]2 to 28-02-2013, it did not receive fhml the branch in which the sting operation took place any report in respect or the rollowing branch level inrlicators: cv ].] - Customer left without opening an account. E ] ] .] - Customer did not complete transaction. E ]3.] - Customer acting on behalf orthird party. E ]4.4 - Customer could explain source of fund. 8. On the request of the Bank a personal hearing was held on ]8-03- 20]4, which was attended by Mr. A.L Daultani, Executive Director and Mr. B.N Shenoy, General Manager. During the hearing the Bank admitted that the conversation recorded between the Cobrapost reporter and the Bank's employee did take place. It was further admitted that the Bank's pol icy on AML/CFT at the material time did require filing of STR even in case of attempted transactions which evidently was not followed by the concerned employee. The Bank requested that the notice issued under Section I3 may be withdrawn. 9. In their additional submissions vide letter no.O&S:K YC:OJ8:20 14-15 dated 06-06-2014, the Bank did not offer detailed comments on th~ transcript of conversation between the branch manager and the reporter stating that it was not full conversation from beginning to end and contained only extracts of the repOlied conversation. Discus~ion and Findings 10. While Section 12 of the Act lays down the general obligations of the banks to tile suspicious transaction reports, the PML Rules, which further elaborate these obligations, require the banks to maintain the record of all transactions whether or not made in cash (Rule 3 of the PML Rules). The definition of suspicious transactions in Rule 2 includes an attempted transaction. The attempted transaction has not been defined separately. Rule 7(3) requires that all reporting entities shall evolve an internal mechanism 3 of6. OrderNo.5/DIR/FIU-IND/2015 r - I having reg;lrd 10 ;IIlY guidl'lines issuL'd hy RL'gulalor ror dL'lL'Clill),.',thl' transactions rL'll-rrL'd to in Rule] and ror rurnishillg illl()l"Jllatioll :Ihollt such ~ transactions in such !()l'Jnas m;IYbe direckd by its Regulator. 11. !\ perusal or the transcript of the Cobra Post sting operation shows that the Cobra Post reporter posing as a cllstomer visited Sector ] I, Gurgaon branch of the Bank and told the branch manager that he wanted 10 invest Rs. One crore and more money, about 25-26 crore, was expected ill March, on the condition that he did not want to pay TDS and did not wish to show in their books. The Bank official offered Jixed deposit plan where there would be no TDS and investment in insurance by LlC and called onc LlC official for consultation. The reporter fUl1hertold that all money was in cash and he needed a locker to safe keep 7-8 crorc. The Branch manager agrct'd 10 provide a locker and use that money for investment and convert into white. The Bank official suggested to route black money by making a demand draft and depositing it into an account with the Bank to pay LlC orlicial for investment in LIC product. The Branch official would help to count crores of cash by making the counting machine available to the reporter. 12. The Bank's KYC and AML Policy was approved by its board on I()Ih January, 20] 2. Annexure - 1I (D) of the policy details the suspicious alel1 indicators for branches. The following aleJis at serial no.], 11, 15, 19, 20, 21 and 22 are relevant in the present case: Annexure 11(0) mentions that "if any if the above alert indicators are noticed during the transactions in any account, branches shall immediately report the same to KYC and AML Cell, head office immediately". 4 of 6. Order No.5/DIRJFIU-IND/20]5 -- _._- - - - - -- -- ---- ------- -- - S.No Alert Indicator Indicative rules/Scenario ---- ] Customer left without opening Customer did not open account after being accounl in[unw:tI aboul KYC retluin:meJlts; - - ] I Customer did not complete Customer did not complete transaction aftcr transaction queries such source_of lUEds, - 15 Customer acting on behalf of a Customer has vague knowledge about amollnl third party ofmuney involvetl inlhe transaction. ]9 Customer want to avoid Customer makes inquiries or tries to convince reporting staff to avoid reporting. -- - --- 20 Customer could not explain Customer could not explain source of funds sourcc of funds satisfactoril y. 2] Transaction is unnecessarily Transaction is unnecessary complex for its complex stated purpose. )) 'I'nmsflction hfls no economic rhe amount or frequency or the stated reason of rationale the transaction does not make sense for the particular customer. '. r 1.3. It is evident fi'om the contents or the transcripts, which !J;IVClIot hlTII denied by the Bank, that the ('ohrapost reporter made explicit conversation about investing through the Bank large amounts or e<lsh or unexplainl'd origin. The discussion involved the following themes- (a) Immediate investment of Rs.1 CroIT, more (l{s.2.'\-2() crorc) e<lsh expected in March; (b) There should be no TDS; (c) Converting black money into white; (d) Demand for locker where Rs.7-R crorc cl1sh cOltlcl he kept; 15. PMLA aims at prevention of laundering of the proceeds of crime. ~,~q~r~ That even attempted transactions are required to be reported points to the ,/'S-~v,,,\£~~/G~~~~\ high level of expectation the law has from the banks. In the instant case there ~ ~ .,.~~.::~ (f\ I , ~ '':ff!. ~ i were all the ingredients which would make a transaction 'an attempted \ .~ ~~: :.:; -I< I ~ .,y*. t: INO'\'. "rr-f',\ 14. These queries were explicit and made no secret ()r the f~)ctthat the reporter posing as customer was talking about black money. The conversation had several features which should have led to generation or behavioral alerts as per IBA guidelines mentioned above and as per the AMI, Policy of the Bank. However, in the concerned branch no alert was generated or escalated to the Principal Officer, as admitted by the Bank. The content, tone :md tenor of the conversations/ discussions with the Cohrapost reporter do not indicate any sense of alarm, which a prudent banker, entrusted with the legal responsibility of reporting and preventing money laundering, would be expected to display in such circumstances. The Bank will not be able to fulfill its reporting obligations under the PMLA unless there is a free flow or information from its branches to the Principal Officer, who is responsible to fulfill the reporting obligations. Evidently, the concerned employee of the Bank was either oblivious of his duties or cared little for compliance with his legal obligations under the PMLA. Further, there was no visible application of .' mind at the Branch level to determine whe.ther the conversations/discussions would fall in the category of attempted transactions. This indicates that the Bank's argument that the incident would not fall in the category of attempted transaction is only a post facto rationalization; the Bank's Head Office was not even aware of the matter until it was out in the media. Rather than looking deeper into the causes with tl view to establish accountability and take remedial measures, the Bank has tried to justify the actions / responses of the employee without appreciating the context and seriousness of the matter. The Bank stated during the personal hearing that even though there was a clear-cut policy for filing STR .n the case of attempted transactions, it was not followed by the concerned employee. - I 5 of 6. OrderNo.5/DIR/FIU-IND/2015 r transaction'. It is not enough 1'01'tl1l' Ibnk to LIY dmvn a policy; it is l'qll;dly important to implemL'nt it. In the c;lse or ('orpor;ltion Bank, the poliq \vas not rollowl'd in the concerned h;1I1k hr;lllch covl'rL,d hy thl' ('ohrapost. In light or the ahove, I conclude that there was a Elilure in the Ibnk's inlL'rn;d mechanism 1'01'detecting and reporting attcllIplL'd suspicious transact ions, in terms or Section 12 or PMLA read with Rules 2, J, 7 and X or the PMI, Rules. Accordingly, in exercise or the powers conrerred on me under Section 13 (2) or the PMLA, 2002, I herehy impose on Corporation Bank a rinc or Rs. One Lakh f()r f~lilure in compliancc with its obligations laid down in Section 12 or the PMLA read with Rules 2, J, 7 and X or the PMI, Rules framed thereunder. (Praveen Kumar Tiwari) Director Financial Intelligence Unit-India To Corporation Bank, Head Office, Mangaladevi Temple Road, P.B No.88, Mangalore - 57500l. Through: The Chairman and Managing Director I 6 of 6. Order No.5/DIR/FIU-IND/20 15