What is a Banking Company?
Banking company under PMLA means a banking company or a co-operative bank to which the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 1949 (10 of 1949) applies and includes any bank or banking institution referred to in section 51 of that Act


What is a Financial institution?
Financial institution means a financial institution as defined in clause (c) of section 45- I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) and includes a chit fund company, a housing finance institution, an authorised person, a payment system operator, a non-banking financial company and the Department of Posts in the Government of India


What is an Intermediary?
Intermediary means,-
(i) a stock-broker, share transfer agent, banker to an issue, trustee to a trust deed, registrar to an issue, merchant banker, underwriter, portfolio manager, investment adviser or any other intermediary associated with securities market and registered under section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992; or
(ii) an association recognised or registered under the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 or any member of such association;
(iii) intermediary registered by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority; or
(iv) a recognised stock exchange referred to in clause (f) of section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956


What is a Chit Fund Company?
Chit fund company means a company managing, conducting or supervising, as foremen, agent or in any other capacity, chits as defined in Section 2 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982.


What is a Co-operative Bank?
Co-operative bank shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause(dd) of section 2 of the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act 1961.


What is a Housing Finance Institution?
Housing Finance Institution shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (d) of section 2 of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987.


What is a Non-banking Financial Company?
Non-banking financial company shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (f) of section 45-I of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.